Create Documentation for the ComInterfaceGenerator (#36833)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/native-interop/preserve-sig.md

---
title: Implicit native signature translations and PreserveSig in .NET native interop
description: Learn how managed signatures translate to native signatures for interop methods in .NET
ms.date: 9/21/2023
---

# Implicit method signature translations in .NET interop

> In order to stay programming language agnostic, the Windows COM system and many Windows APIs return a 4 byte integer type called an `HRESULT` to indicate whether an API succeeded or failed, along with some information about the failure. Other values that need to be passed to the caller are "returned" via pointer parameters that act as "out" parameters, and are typically the last parameter in the signature. Languages like C# and Visual Basic traditionally translate a failure code to an exception to match how failures are usually propagated in the language, and the "out" parameter was treated as the return value in the signature of the managed language representation. For example, see below a native COM method signature and its corresponding C# signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to stay programming language agnostic, the Windows COM system and many Windows APIs return a 4 byte integer type called an `HRESULT` to indicate whether an API succeeded or failed, along with some information about the failure. Other values that need to be passed to the caller are "returned" via pointer parameters that act as "out" parameters, typically as the last parameter in the signature. Languages like C# and Visual Basic traditionally translate a failure code to an exception to match how failures are usually propagated in the language&mdash;the "out" parameter is treated as the return value in the signature of the managed language representation. For example, see the following native COM method signature and its corresponding C# signature:
```

Author: I completely reworded this paragraph to frame it more as a translation from C# to native rather than native to C#.

> In order to stay programming language agnostic, the Windows COM system and many Windows APIs return a 4 byte error code called an HRESULT to indicate whether an API succeeded or failed, along with some information about the failure. Other values that need to be passed to the caller are "returned" via pointer parameters that act as `out` parameters, and are typically the last parameter in the signature. Languages like C#, Visual Basic, and Java traditionally translate a failure code to an exception to match how failures are usually propagated in the language, and the `out` parameter was treated as the return value in the signature of the managed langauge representation. For example, see below a native COM method signature and its corresponding C# signature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to stay programming language agnostic, the Windows COM system and many Windows APIs return a 4 byte integer type called an `HRESULT` to indicate whether an API succeeded or failed, along with some information about the failure. Other values that need to be passed to the caller are "returned" via pointer parameters that act as "out" parameters, and are typically the last parameter in the signature. Languages like C# and Visual Basic traditionally translate a failure code to an exception to match how failures are usually propagated in the language, and the "out" parameter was treated as the return value in the signature of the managed language representation. For example, see below a native COM method signature and its corresponding C# signature.
```

```c
HRESULT Add(int a, int b, /* out */ int* sum);
```

```csharp
int Add(int a, int b);
```

## PreserveSig in COM

> All COM methods in C# are expected to use the translated signature by default. In order to use and export methods without the translation, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.PreserveSigAttribute> to a COM interface method. When the attribute is applied to a method, no translation is done to the signature. This applied to both built-in COM and source-generated COM. For example, see below the C# method signature with a `PreserveSig` attribute and its corresponding native signature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All COM methods in C# are expected to use the translated signature by default. In order to use and export methods without the translation, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.PreserveSigAttribute> to a COM interface method. When the attribute is applied to a method, no translation is done to the signature. This applies to both built-in COM and source-generated COM. For example, see the C# method signature below with a `PreserveSig` attribute and its corresponding native signature.
```

```csharp
[PreserveSig]
int Add(int a, int b, out int sum);
```

```c
int Add(int a, int b, int* sum);
```

## PreserveSig with P/Invokes

The <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> attribute also has a `bool` field named `PreserveSig` that works similarly to the `PreserveSigAttribute`, but defaults to `true`. To use the translated managed signature with a P/Invoke that returns an HRESULT in the native signature, set the PreserveSig field to true in the `DllImportAttribute`. For example, see below the signature of a P/Invoke to the same method with `PreserveSig` set to `false`, and with it left to the default `true` value.

```csharp

> [LibraryImportAttribute("shlwapi.dll", EntryPoint = "SHAutoComplete", ExactSpelling = true, PreserveSig = false)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[DllImportAttribute("shlwapi.dll", EntryPoint = "SHAutoComplete", ExactSpelling = true, PreserveSig = false)]
```

public static extern void SHAutoComplete(IntPtr hwndEdit, SHAutoCompleteFlags dwFlags);

[DllImportAttribute("shlwapi.dll", EntryPoint = "SHAutoComplete", ExactSpelling = true)]
public static extern int SHAutoCompleteHRESULT(IntPtr hwndEdit, SHAutoCompleteFlags dwFlags);
```

> [NOTE!] Source-generated P/Invokes, which use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute>, have no `PreserveSig` field. The generated code assumes the native and managed signature are identical. See [Source-generated P/Invokes](./pinvoke-source-generation.md#differences-from-dllimport) for more information.

## Manually handling HRESULT values

> When working with a `PreserveSig` method that has an HRESULT return value, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.ThrowForHR> method to throw the corresponding exception if the HRESULT indicates a failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When working with a `PreserveSig` method that has an `HRESULT` return value, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal. ThrowExceptionForHR> method to throw the corresponding exception if the `HRESULT` indicates a failure.
```

> When working with a `PreserveSig` method that has an `HRESULT` return value, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.ThrowExceptionForHR> method to throw the corresponding exception if the `HRESULT` indicates a failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When working with a `PreserveSig` method that has an `HRESULT` return value, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.ThrowExceptionForHR%2A> method to throw the corresponding exception if the `HRESULT` indicates a failure.
```

---
title: Implicit native signature translations and PreserveSig in .NET native interop
description: Learn how managed signatures translate to native signatures for interop methods in .NET
ms.date: 9/21/2023
---

# Implicit method signature translations in .NET interop

> In order to stay programming language agnostic, the Windows COM system and many Windows APIs return a 4 byte integer type called an `HRESULT` to indicate whether an API succeeded or failed, along with some information about the failure. Other values that need to be passed to the caller are "returned" via pointer parameters that act as "out" parameters, and are typically the last parameter in the signature. Languages like C# and Visual Basic traditionally translate a failure code to an exception to match how failures are usually propagated in the language, and expect interop method signatures to not include the `HRESULT`. To translate the method signature to a native signature, the runtime moves the return value of the method to an additional "out" parameter with one more level of indirection (in other words, makes it a pointer to the managed signature's return type), and assumes an `HRESULT` return value. If the managed method returns `void`, no additional parameter is added and the return value becomes an `HRESULT`. For example, see the following two C# COM methods that translate to the same native signature:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To stay programming language agnostic, the Windows COM system and many Windows APIs return a 4 byte integer type called an `HRESULT` to indicate whether an API succeeded or failed, along with some information about the failure. Other values that need to be passed to the caller are "returned" via pointer parameters that act as "out" parameters, and are typically the last parameter in the signature. Languages like C# and Visual Basic traditionally translate a failure code to an exception to match how failures are usually propagated in the language, and expect interop method signatures to not include the `HRESULT`. To translate the method signature to a native signature, the runtime moves the return value of the method to an additional "out" parameter with one more level of indirection (in other words, makes it a pointer to the managed signature's return type), and assumes an `HRESULT` return value. If the managed method returns `void`, no additional parameter is added and the return value becomes an `HRESULT`. For example, see the following two C# COM methods that translate to the same native signature:
```

Reviewer 3: Just changed "In order to" to "To".

```csharp
int Add(int a, int b);

void Add(int a, int b, out int sum);
```

```c
HRESULT Add(int a, int b, /* out */ int* sum);
```

## PreserveSig in COM

> All COM methods in C# are expected to use the translated signature by default. In order to use and export methods without the signature translation and handling of `HRESULT` values, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.PreserveSigAttribute> to a COM interface method. When the attribute is applied to a method, no translation is done to the signature, and exceptions will not be thrown for failing `HRESULT` values. This applies to both built-in COM and source-generated COM. For example, see the C# method signature below with a `PreserveSig` attribute and its corresponding native signature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All COM methods in C# are expected to use the translated signature by default. To use and export methods without the signature translation and handling of `HRESULT` values, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.PreserveSigAttribute> to a COM interface method. When the attribute is applied to a method, no translation is done to the signature, and exceptions aren't thrown for failing `HRESULT` values. This applies to both built-in COM and source-generated COM. For example, see the following C# method signature with a `PreserveSig` attribute and its corresponding native signature.
```

```csharp
[PreserveSig]
int Add(int a, int b, out int sum);
```

```c

> int Add(int a, int b, int* sum);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HRESULT Add(int a, int b, int* sum);
```

```

> This can be useful if the method may return different `HRESULT` values that are not failures, but must be handled differently. For example, some methods may return the value `S_FALSE` when a method does not fail, but only returns partial results, and `S_OK` when it returns all results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This can be useful if the method might return different `HRESULT` values that aren't failures, but must be handled differently. For example, some methods might return the value `S_FALSE` when a method doesn't fail but only returns partial results, and `S_OK` when it returns all results.
```

> ## PreserveSig with P/Invokes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `PreserveSig` with P/Invokes
```

> The <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> attribute also has a `bool` field named `PreserveSig` that works similarly to the `PreserveSigAttribute`, but defaults to `true`. To indicate that the runtime should translate the managed signature and handle the `HRESULT` that is returned, set the `PreserveSig` field to `false` in the `DllImportAttribute`. For example, see below the signatures of two P/Invokes to the same native method, one with `PreserveSig` set to `false`, and one with it left to the default `true` value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> attribute also has the `bool PreserveSig` field that works similarly to the `PreserveSigAttribute`, but defaults to `true`. To indicate that the runtime should translate the managed signature and handle the `HRESULT` that is returned, set the `PreserveSig` field to `false` in the `DllImportAttribute`. For example, see below the signatures of two P/Invokes to the same native method, one with `PreserveSig` set to `false`, and one with it left to the default `true` value.
```

> The <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> attribute also has the `bool PreserveSig` field that works similarly to the `PreserveSigAttribute`, but defaults to `true`. To indicate that the runtime should translate the managed signature and handle the `HRESULT` that is returned, set the `PreserveSig` field to `false` in the `DllImportAttribute`. For example, see below the signatures of two P/Invokes to the same native method, one with `PreserveSig` set to `false`, and one with it left to the default `true` value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.DllImportAttribute> attribute also has the `bool PreserveSig` field that works similarly to the `PreserveSigAttribute`, but defaults to `true`. To indicate that the runtime should translate the managed signature and handle the `HRESULT` that is returned, set the `PreserveSig` field to `false` in the `DllImportAttribute`. For example, see the following signatures of two P/Invokes to the same native method, one with `PreserveSig` set to `false`, and one with it left to the default `true` value.
```

```csharp
[DllImport("shlwapi.dll", EntryPoint = "SHAutoComplete", ExactSpelling = true, PreserveSig = false)]
public static extern void SHAutoComplete(IntPtr hwndEdit, SHAutoCompleteFlags dwFlags);

[DllImport("shlwapi.dll", EntryPoint = "SHAutoComplete", ExactSpelling = true)]
public static extern int SHAutoCompleteHRESULT(IntPtr hwndEdit, SHAutoCompleteFlags dwFlags);
```

> > [NOTE!] Source-generated P/Invokes, which use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute>, have no `PreserveSig` field. The generated code always assumes the native and managed signature are identical. See [Source-generated P/Invokes](./pinvoke-source-generation.md#differences-from-dllimport) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Source-generated P/Invokes, which use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.LibraryImportAttribute>, have no `PreserveSig` field. The generated code always assumes the native and managed signature are identical. For more information, see [Source-generated P/Invokes](./pinvoke-source-generation.md#differences-from-dllimport).
```

> ## Manually handling HRESULT values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Manually handling `HRESULT` values
```

> ## Manually handling `HRESULT` values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Manually handle `HRESULT` values
```

> When calling a `PreserveSig` method that returns an `HRESULT`, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.ThrowExceptionForHR%2A> method to throw the corresponding exception if the `HRESULT` indicates a failure. Similarly, when implementing a `PreserveSig` method, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.GetHRForException%2A> method to return the `HRESULT` that corresponding value for an exception.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When calling a `PreserveSig` method that returns an `HRESULT`, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.ThrowExceptionForHR%2A> method to throw the corresponding exception if the `HRESULT` indicates a failure. Similarly, when implementing a `PreserveSig` method, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.GetHRForException%2A> method to return the `HRESULT` that indicates a corresponding value for the exception.
```

> ## Marshalling HRESULTs as structs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Marshall HRESULTs as structs
```

Author: ```suggestion
## Marshal HRESULTs as structs
```

> When using a `PreserveSig` method, `int` is expected to be the managed type for `HRESULT`. However, using a 4 byte struct can enable helper methods and properties that make the value easy to work with. In built-in marshalling, this works by automatically. In order to use a struct in place of `int` as the managed representation of `HRESULT` in source-generated marshalling, use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> with <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedType.Error> as the argument. This will reinterpret the bits of the `HRESULT` as the struct.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using a `PreserveSig` method, `int` is expected to be the managed type for `HRESULT`. However, using a 4 byte struct can enable helper methods and properties that construct the value easy to work with. In built-in marshalling, this works automatically. To use a struct in place of `int` as the managed representation of `HRESULT` in source-generated marshalling, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> attribute with <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedType.Error> as the argument. The presence of this attribute reinterprets the bits of the `HRESULT` as the struct.
```

Author: ```suggestion
When using a `PreserveSig` method, `int` is expected to be the managed type for `HRESULT`. However, using a custom 4-byte struct as the return type allows you to define helper methods and properties that can simplify working with the `HRESULT`. In built-in marshalling, this works automatically. To use a struct in place of `int` as the managed representation of `HRESULT` in source-generated marshalling, add the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> attribute with <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedType.Error> as the argument. The presence of this attribute reinterprets the bits of the `HRESULT` as the struct.
```

When calling a `PreserveSig` method that returns an `HRESULT`, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.ThrowExceptionForHR%2A> method to throw the corresponding exception if the `HRESULT` indicates a failure. Similarly, when implementing a `PreserveSig` method, you can use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal.GetHRForException%2A> method to return the `HRESULT` that corresponding value for an exception.

## Marshalling HRESULTs as structs

> When using a `PreserveSig` method, `int` is expected to be the managed type for `HRESULT`. However, using a 4 byte struct can enable helper methods and properties that make the value easy to work with. In order to use a struct in place of `int` as the managed representation of `HRESULT`, use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> with <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedType.Error> as the argument. This will reinterpret the bits of the `HRESULT` as the struct. This is supported by built-in and source-generated marshalling.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When using a `PreserveSig` method, `int` is expected to be the managed type for `HRESULT`. However, using a 4 byte struct can enable helper methods and properties that make the value easy to work with. In built-in marshalling, this works by automatically. In order to use a struct in place of `int` as the managed representation of `HRESULT` in source-generated marshalling, use the <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.MarshalAsAttribute> with <xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.UnmanagedType.Error> as the argument. This will reinterpret the bits of the `HRESULT` as the struct.
```
